URL: https://screenrant.com/the-americans-spy-thriller-perfect-series/
Title: 10/10 Spy Thrillers Are Rare, But This 6-Part Masterpiece Is Perfect From Start To Finish
Published: 2026-02-20
Extracted: 2026-02-21T10:54:45.076526
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The Americans is one of the greatest spy thrillers ever made for television, and it deserves a lot more love. It’s tricky for a spy movie to maintain tension for a whole two-hour feature film, so it’s nearly impossible for a TV series to keep up the suspense for years on end.
It’s rare that a spy series, when all is said and done, can be rightly described as a masterpiece. 24 started off strong, but it eventually became very repetitive and contrived. Slow Horses was almost perfect, but it started to go downhill with its lighter, goofier fifth season. The Americans is a rare TV spy thriller that’s truly flawless from start to finish.
The Americans Is A Perfect Spy Thriller
Set at the height of the Cold War, The Americans stars Keri Russell and Matthew Rhys as a pair of Soviet KGB officers posing as a suburban American couple named Elizabeth and Philip Jennings. They have two American-born kids that they’re raising like any other family, but their ulterior motive is to destabilize the United States on behalf of the Soviet Union.
The Russians really sent these plant families to infiltrate American society and gather intel. You can also see this trope in the opening sequence of Black Widow. If they’d all been as good at their jobs — and as good at hiding their true identities — as the Jenningses, then they might’ve actually won the Cold War.
How The Americans Was Different From Other Spy Shows
What separated The Americans from other spy shows, and made it much more emotionally engaging than other spy shows, was the family aspect. Elizabeth and Philip have to balance their espionage work with their responsibilities as parents to two children who are none the wiser that this isn’t really their homeland.
The Americans is a compelling blend of spy thriller and family drama. It’s always fun to see a character like Walter White or Barry Berkman have to juggle two separate lives — one as a criminal and one as a normal, unassuming person — and in The Americans, two people have to lead a double life in cahoots.
The Americans Has One Of The Best Finales In TV History
At the end of its sixth season, The Americans culminated in one of the greatest series finales in television history. The legacy of a TV show can hinge entirely on the strength of its finale — Game of Thrones went from a beloved classic to a laughingstock overnight, thanks to its disappointing ending — but The Americans stuck the landing in its final episode, with a real sense of closure.