URL: https://screenrant.com/a-knight-of-the-seven-kingdoms-game-of-thrones-parallel-creator-confirms/
Title: A Knight Of The Seven Kingdoms Hidden Connection To Game Of Thrones Confirmed By Creator
Published: 2026-02-21
Extracted: 2026-02-21T19:48:43.258699
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Warning: Spoilers ahead for A Knight of the Seven Kingdoms.HBO's A Knight of the Seven Kingdoms acts as a prequel to Game of Thrones, and fans are already seeing key parallels between Ser Duncan "Dunk" The Tall and a certain Game of Thrones knight.
The prequel series, written by George R. R. Martin and based on his Dunk and Egg novels, follows Dunk (played by Peter Claffey) as he must adapt to his new life as a knight alongside his young squire Egg (played by Dexter Sol Ansell). The two unlikely friends travel across Westeros and must face difficult challenges in a land ruled by the Targaryen dynasty.
In an interview with Business Insider, showrunner and creator Ira Parker addressed a certain scene which was pointed out by fans during A Knight of the Seven Kingdoms' episode 5, titled "In the Name of the Mother," where a young Dunk is shown walking down Kingsroad with his childhood friend Rafe returning to King's Landing. In Game of Thrones season 4, episode 5 titled "First of His Name", Brienne of Tarth is sent away from King's Landing by Jaime Lannister, journeying down the same path.
"It's the exact same road in Belfast, same trees and everything. There's no attention drawn to it, but anyone who's a deep, deep fan of the show, hopefully, will pick up on that."
The nod to Brienne of Tarth is, of course, due to her being a descendant of Dunk, as confirmed by author and A Knight of the Seven Kingdoms executive producer Martin in 2016. Both Dunk and Brienne also follow similar character arcs during each show, as they are both motivated by honor and loyalty while being known for their height and strength. Both characters struggle to be taken seriously, but rise through the ranks to become respected knights.
Dunk is also referenced in another episode of Game of Thrones when Joffrey Baratheon is going through a written history of the Kingsguard titled Book of Brothers and states, "Ser Duncan the Tall. Four pages for Ser Duncan. He must have been quite a man." Fans of Martin's work know that Dunk's life is filled with adventure, and his young squire will become King Aegon V Targaryen, and he recruits Dunk to be Lord Commander of the Kingsguard.
A Knight of the Seven Kingdoms is available to stream on HBO, and the series finale will premiere on February 22.