URL: https://screenrant.com/brendan-fraser-the-rocky-the-mummy-returns-theatrical-release-2026/
Title: Brendan Fraser & The Rock’s Hit $433M Fantasy Thriller Officially Returning To American Theaters For The First Time Ever After 25 Years
Published: 2026-02-20
Extracted: 2026-02-21T09:38:44.675836
----------------------------------------------------------------------

This March, adventure-horror classic The Mummy Returns will release in theaters once more for its 25th anniversary.
The Mummy Returns is the sequel to The Mummy. The popular 1999 horror adventure film was a remake of a 1932 movie of the same name, starring Boris Karloff. The adaptation was directed by Stephen Sommers and featured more action, romance, and comedy. The project was a commercial success, and so was its follow-up, which garnered $433 million at the box office. It was 2001's seventh highest grossing film.
The movie follows the story of French Foreign Legionnaire, Rick O'Connell (Fraser), who is part of a battalion that discovers the lost ruins of the Hamunaptra. The map to Hamunaptra eventually ends up in the possession of the Carnahan siblings, Jonathan (John Hannah) and Evie (Weisz). Together with Rick as their guide, they head to the lost city to uncover ancient secrets and lost tombs..
The Mummy Returns focuses on Rick and Evie nearly a decade later as they travel with their precocious son, Alex. The character shares his parents' clumsiness and nose for trouble. During one of their adventures, Alex uncovers an artifact that leads to the tomb of The Scorpion King (Dwayne Johnson).
While Johnson was a headliner in the WWF, The Mummy Returns launched him into stardom. The franchise put him in the spotlight and showcased his talents to a broader audience, paving the way for his successful career. He also expressed his gratitude by thanking Fraser for casting him when the two were on Actors on Actors.
The success of The Mummy movies showed major studios that there was a massive market for horror and action films. Audiences were hungry for blockbusters that could balance the two genres, setting a new trend for the entertainment industry.
Tickets for the re-release of The Mummy Returns were announced on February 19, 2026. What might be a nostalgic romp for some audiences will be a brand-new experience for others. The film, hitting theaters again, has been part of a trend of bringing old favorites back to the big screen.
Universal Pictures monster features were known for bringing audiences into theaters back in the 1930s. While they were hits during their time, the 2010s Dark Universe revival era failed to meet expectations. The Mummy remake starring Tom Cruise has a dismal 15% on Rotten Tomatoes. The Mummy Returns fares much higher at 46% with critics.
Universal is currently relaunching the franchise with Lee Cronin's The Mummy in 2026 and an announced sequel starring Fraser and Weisz returning as Rick and Evie in 2028. The news excited fans of the series, as Weisz did not return for the third Mummy movie, The Mummy: Tomb of the Dragon Emperor. Evie was played by actress Maria Bello.
The Mummy Returns hits theaters again on March 27, 2026.