URL: https://screenrant.com/harry-potter-goblet-of-fire-daniel-radcliffe-mistake-near-drowning/
Title: Daniel Radcliffe's Big Mistake Nearly Caused Him To Drown While Making Harry Potter
Published: 2026-02-20
Extracted: 2026-02-21T10:34:50.521149
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Rehearsing the underwater sequence in
almost turned deadly for Daniel Radcliffe.Released in 2005, the fourth installment in the Harry Potter franchise follows Radcliffe's Harry as he competes in the Triwizard Tournament. The second of the three tasks in the tournament features contestants attempting to recover a loved one from the bottom of the Black Lake, and Radcliffe now reveals that training for this sequence was no easy feat.
While on First We Feast's "Hot Ones" interview series, Radcliffe reveals that he made a mistake with his regulator while training for The Goblet of Fire's Black Lake set piece. The actor recalls forgetting to take a breath when he was supposed to, leaving him without the ability to put his regulator back in without inhaling a mouthful of water. Check out Radcliffe's recollection of the moment below:
There was a time when we were training for it where we were doing mask-clearing exercises, a very basic thing when learning to dive. You take a deep breath and you take the regulator out, and when you put it back in you've got to keep that breath because you go [blows out into regulator] to blow the air out.
I took the thing out once, and I was like, "Didn't breathe. Don't have any breath to clear this when I get it back on." And I put it back in and, yeah, I was like [motions frantically upward with thumb], which is, "Get me out of here." That's my drowning signal. And I got up and the stunt coordinator looked at me in the way that only he could – he's a lovely man called Greg Powell – and he went, "Well, you won't make that mistake again." And I was like, "Nope, you're absolutely right."
We filmed for six weeks. I've heard it quoted that we averaged five seconds of usable footage per day. That was one of the things where you go, 'yeah, I'll never do something like this again.'
Nearly drowning wasn't the only unfortunate experience Radcliffe had involving Goblet of Fire's second task. Back in 2005, Radcliffe spoke with Weekly Reader (via Daniel J Radcliffe Holland), revealing that he spent so much time underwater filming that he ended up getting two ear infections.
The arduous training and filming experience was evidently worth it in the end, as the fourth Harry Potter movie ended up being a major hit. Though reviews weren't quite as glowing as those for Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (2004), the film outperformed its predecessor at the box office, grossing $895 million worldwide, compared to Azkaban's $795 million.
On Rotten Tomatoes, Goblet of Fire enjoys a strong 88% critics' score, with the audience-driven Popcornmeter coming in a little lower at 74%. Though the film lacks Alfonso Cuarón's unique direction featured in Prisoner of Azkaban, director Mike Newell's installment was celebrated for its teen drama and for its introduction of more mature elements into the saga.
Radcliffe and Harry Potter costars Emma Watson and Rupert Grint went to star in four subsequent films in the franchise, ultimately bidding farewell to the Wizarding World in 2011. Now, of course, author J.K. Rowling's popular fantasy book series is poised for a major on-screen resurgence.
HBO's Harry Potter TV show, which will premiere in early 2027, is expected to devote one season to each of Rowling's seven novels. Though the show's take on Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire is still a handful of years away, Radcliffe's latest story could evidently prove useful to the next generation of stars should similar filming methods be adopted.