URL: https://screenrant.com/barry-bill-hader-hbo-best-crime-thriller-series/
Title: HBO's 4-Part Crime Thriller Masterpiece Series Is One Of Its Best
Published: 2026-02-20
Extracted: 2026-02-21T09:33:52.256439
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Bill Hader’s twisted comedy thriller Barry is one of HBO’s best ever crime shows. Hader stars as Barry Berkman, a hitman-for-hire who, during one of his assignments, discovers his true passion: acting. Barry started off as a quirky dark comedy, but it gradually got grimmer and grimmer until it was practically a horror show in its fourth and final season.
When the series was first announced, the story of a hitman-turned-actor sounded like a gimmicky premise that would barely sustain a sketch, let alone an entire TV show. But by the time Barry ended, it had become one of the most acclaimed shows on television. Hader and his writers turned that gimmicky premise into a profound exploration of the human condition.
Barry Is A Fresh Take On The Crime Genre
Barry is a wholly unique, wholly original take on the crime genre. It starts off playing with a lot of familiar tropes from the crime genre, but subverts our expectations at every turn. Like Breaking Bad, it revolves around a character trying to keep his two worlds apart — his ordinary life and his secret criminal life — but this character is an uncaring sociopath from the very beginning.
Like John Wick, Barry revolves around an unstoppable professional killer, but the action is much less sensationalized (and even has a slapstick edge to it). As Barry pursues his dream of acting while reluctantly taking on assassination jobs, the series draws an irresistible satirical parallel between the cutthroat contract-killing industry and the cutthroat entertainment industry.
You’ll never watch another crime show quite like Barry. The premise of a killer hiding his murderous motives from his friends and co-workers might sound similar to Dexter, but Barry has no pretense that its title character is some kind of righteous vigilante. From the very beginning, we’re following a bad guy who doesn’t realize he’s a bad guy.
How Bill Hader Reinvented Himself For Barry
Hader completely reinvented himself for Barry. Before he co-created this HBO masterpiece, Hader was best known as one of SNL’s greatest impressionists, and as a memorable character actor from supporting roles in Superbad, Tropic Thunder, and Forgetting Sarah Marshall. But in Barry, he showed off previously unseen dramatic chops.
And Hader didn’t just reinvent himself in front of the camera; he also took on a bunch of new roles behind the scenes. Hader led a crack team of writers to tell this increasingly bleak story, and he directed a good chunk of the episodes, too. Hader proved to be one of Hollywood’s finest action directors with his work behind the camera on Barry.