URL: https://screenrant.com/zelda-40th-anniversary-remake-free/
Title: Legend Of Zelda Gets Free 40th Anniversary Remake By Fans, For Fans
Published: 2026-02-20
Extracted: 2026-02-21T09:45:52.269222
----------------------------------------------------------------------

40th anniversary celebrations for The Legend of Zelda have so far been muted, with no official major announcements from Nintendo (a new Breath of the Wild update doesn't really count). Its birthday is tomorrow, February 21, commemorating the day the original game released for the Famicom in Japan in 1986—it wouldn't come to the NES until the following year. A fan-made remake of Zelda 1 has recently released, though, and is free-to-play.
Game developer jeb_yoshi reimagined The Legend of Zelda and released their creation via Game Jolt. The PC game is entirely free—Jeb stresses that it "is NOT for profit"—and throws a significant number of curveballs into the 40-year-old Zelda game. What started out as a straight remaster, now has new items, dungeons, characters, enemies, and more added to it. If you want to see it in action, we first stumbled upon Jeb's game in a playthrough from BasementLet'sPlay on YouTube; their first episode showing it off is below.
The OG Zelda Just Got A Free Fan Remake
If you've played The Legend of Zelda before, you'll quickly realize things aren't quite the same in Jeb's version. You only have to explore a few screens to realize the overworld isn't laid out the same, and your memory isn't going to see you through Link's quest. Enemy placements, item spawns, dungeon layouts, and more have all been remixed—not to mention the pixel art has been revamped. It's more of a love letter to both the original game and the Zelda series at large.
For instance, if you go to pick up the Heart Container in a cave near the Southeast Sea, you'll instead be met by Ingo, who tells you that your search has been in vain. Ingo didn't officially appear in the series until Ocarina of Time, where he's a disgruntled worker that takes over Lon Lon Ranch after Ganondorf takes control of Hyrule. Similarly, when you go to the usual entrance of Level 1, The Legend of Zelda's first dungeon, you meet Saria, who was also an Ocarina invention.
This Is A Great Way To Celebrate Zelda's 40th Anniversary
So far devoid of official games published by Nintendo, this reimagining is perfect for commemorating The Legend of Zelda's 40th anniversary. The additions take inspiration from the entire series that came after, and it even includes music from later games. This does, however, make it specifically targeted toward returning players; Jeb's remake is not really friendly to those new to the franchise. It seems best suited for those intimately familiar with the original game, since it plays with expectations throughout.
It's also not authentically Zelda, since it features enemies from other franchises, like Boos from Super Mario Bros. It's still an incredible piece of work, and shows what an official remake of the original game could look like if it sought to update many of the game's facets. In many ways, Nintendo has already remade Zelda 1 with Breath of the Wild, restoring the directionless exploration that defined the first game. Until Nintendo kicks off the official anniversary celebrations for The Legend of Zelda, Jeb's remake is the next best thing.
- Genre(s)
- Action-Adventure