URL: https://screenrant.com/vue-ceo-tim-richards-netflix-paramount-wbd-merger-support/
Title: Major Theater Owner Reveals Who The Film Industry Is Really Supporting In Battle For Warner Bros.
Published: 2026-02-20
Extracted: 2026-02-20T17:44:45.926656
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Warner Bros. Discovery is facing an intense battle between two media giants, Paramount and Netflix, as they both want to take over one of the biggest production companies in Hollywood and the world.
Paramount's CEO, David Ellison, has been hot on Netflix's heels since news of a merger between WBD and Netflix was announced last year. Netflix's deal with WBD is for cash and stock valued at $27.75 per share at a total enterprise value of $82.7 billion. Now, Paramount has updated its offer, causing WBD shareholders to consider Paramount's offer up until February 23 and provide "PSKY the ability to make its best and final offer."
Vue International, Europe's largest privately held cinema operator, is run by CEO Tim Richards as major players in cinema weigh in on an industry-changing merger that could shape the future of theaters. In an interview with Deadline, Richards addressed one of the most important deals of recent years between WBD, Netflix, and Paramount, providing clarity on which entity should acquire WBD:
"I think the entire industry, either publicly or privately, is supporting Paramount, because Netflix has been an outlier. Cinema operators worldwide have tried to work with Netflix for 15 years, unsuccessfully, and it’s been very frustrating. It’s a company that has just discovered in the last three weeks that they want to release movies theatrically, compared to a highly respected filmmaker like David Ellison, who has a 15-year track record of producing some absolutely amazing commercial films worldwide. At the end of the day, who do you believe is going to really support our industry going forward: somebody with a 15-year track record, or somebody who’s got a three-week track record?
It’s just unfortunate that Warner Brothers is even in this position. It’s an incredible studio. I spent seven years of my life working there. I think, how could it have come to this? Last year, the company made $4.2BN in box office. It’s not a studio that was really in trouble…"
With the news of Paramount's new tactics, Netflix has made it very clear that they find Ellison's company's actions to be misleading to WBD and its shareholders. "Throughout the robust and highly competitive strategic review process, Netflix has consistently taken a constructive, responsive approach with WBD, in stark contrast to Paramount Skydance." Paramount has also taken shots at Netflix, calling the original deal with WBD "unlawful" and going as far as to file a lawsuit to disclose all the innerworkings of the deal.
Warner Bros. and its board originally rejected Paramount's offer eight times in favor of the deal with Netflix. In previous letters, WBD stated that they were not comfortable with how Ellison was obtaining the funds for the acquisition: "Our binding agreement with Netflix will offer superior value at greater levels of certainty, without the significant risks and costs Paramount's offer would impose on our shareholders."
It's still unclear who Warner Bros. Discovery and its board will favor, but the future of cinema hangs in the balance, and it's clear that major film industry players are leaning towards Paramount as the acquisition battle continues.