URL: https://screenrant.com/spider-man-brand-new-day-ignoring-thunderbolts-daredevil-connections/
Title: Marvel Is Officially Ignoring These 2 Huge Spider-Man Stories
Published: 2026-02-20
Extracted: 2026-02-21T11:02:27.094337
----------------------------------------------------------------------

With Tom Holland's Peter Parker returning for Spider-Man: Brand New Day, one of the many points of interest for fans is how it will connect to the wider Marvel Cinematic Universe. Hulk and Punisher's roles are but two examples of the interplay that comes with a shared universe. But the wall-crawler also calls one of the MCU's most prominent locations, New York, his home.
It's known that New York will be a central location for Spider-Man: Brand New Day, with Peter's upcoming adventure becoming the latest instance of superhero activity in the city that originally brought the Avengers together for the first time. Marvel has not shied away from using the city for its projects during the Multiverse Saga, raising questions in the process about how different stories impact Spider-Man.
That positions Brand New Day as a chance to reveal the answers... or ignore them completely. Thanks to a new update on the film, the movie is officially skipping over two huge stories.
Spider-Man: Brand New Day's Time Jump Places It After Thunderbolts Or Daredevil: Born Again
A recent listing on Barnes & Noble has delivered the first Spider-Man: Brand New Day synopsis. One of the bigger reveals is that it takes place four years after Spider-Man: No Way Home. That officially places Brand New Day in 2028 in the MCU timeline, which is after Thunderbolts* and Daredevil: Born Again season 1 (and likely season 2, too).
Thunderbolts* and Daredevil: Born Again both take place in 2027, a full year before Spidey's new solo film. That's notable because it means Brand New Day won't take place concurrently with either of those MCU projects, even though both have stories that would directly affect the web-slinger.
After Thunderbolts* came out, one of the biggest talking points was whether Spider-Man was caught in The Void's attack on New York. There had been some hope that Brand New Day could show Peter's experience, possibly even having the films take place simultaneously. That's no longer plausible with the four-year time jump.
Meanwhile, Daredevil: Born Again has been focused on Wilson Fisk's mayoral efforts to rid New York of superheroes with the Anti-Vigilante Task Force. Spider-Man should absolutely be a target of such a program. But due to how Sony and Disney divide the Marvel rights, Daredevil: Born Again didn't use Spider-Man to bring him into the story.
Considering we got Daredevil in No Way Home and have Punisher confirmed for Brand New Day, the chances of this storyline being explored through Peter's point of view seemed more realistic. But if the solo film takes place so far after Born Again season 1 and presumably season 2, that's less likely. The movie is now positioned to overlook Fisk's vigilante hunting.
How Spider-Man: Brand New Day Could Still Reference Thunderbolts & Daredevil: Born Again
While Spider-Man: Brand New Day certainly will not directly overlap with the stories in Thunderbolts* or Daredevil: Born Again, all hope is not gone that some connection will emerge.
The movie could begin with a montage of sorts that recaps the last four years of Peter's adventures as Spider-Man. If Marvel Studios is smart and wants to make the MCU more interconnected like before, such a recap of Spider-Man's heroics could somehow link to the Void's attack or Fisk's current political efforts.
Simply mentioning that Peter did or did not enter The Void would suffice for the Thunderbolts* connection. Furthermore, with Punisher returning here, it'd be quite easy for Frank Castle and Peter to discuss the current state of New York's vigilante landscape amid Fisk's plan.
This would allow Spider-Man: Brand New Day to tell the story Destin Daniel Cretton has in mind while still ensuring some synergy between the MCU's New York-set projects. Hopefully we wind up getting some small ties, even if the time jump makes larger overlaps in the stories impossible.
- Release Date
- July 31, 2026
- Director
- Destin Daniel Cretton