URL: https://screenrant.com/venom-movie-tom-hardy-animated-development-report/
Title: New Venom Movie With Tom Hardy In Development From Breakout Horror Directors
Published: 2026-02-20
Extracted: 2026-02-21T13:18:54.095173
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Venom hasn't danced his last dance after all.
Though the Tom Hardy trilogy concluded in 2024 with Venom: The Last Dance, the sinister Symbiote will be making a big-screen comeback in a new animated film, with the British star involved. The Hollywood Reporter reveals the new Venom movie is in development from writers Zach Lipovsky and Adam B. Stein as directors and producers.
The trade reveals that a writer's room is opening up at Sony Pictures Animation to begin developing ideas for a script. While it's unclear if Hardy is producing or lending his voice for the leading role, he is said to be "involved in some capacity."
The duo is perhaps best known for co-directing 2025's Final Destination: Bloodlines, a runaway box office hit that went on to become the highest-grossing movie in the six-film horror franchise. Since then, the duo has been tapped to write Gremlins 3, which will be directed by Chris Columbus and produced by Steven Spielberg.
Outside of Hardy's Marvel trilogy, Venom was also depicted in 2007's Spider-Man 3, where he was played by Topher Grace. The Marvel villain, who has also evolved into an anti-hero over the decades, has had numerous animated appearances through past Spider-Man TV shows.
The Venom animated film is one of several Spider-Man-related projects in the works at Sony, as they are also developing a spinoff for Hailee Steinfeld's Spider-Gwen and a film for Daniel Kaluuya's Spider-Punk. At the time of this story's publication, there is no word yet if the Venom project will be tied to the Spider-Verse franchise.
It's possible that the animated movie could be one of the new properties they explore after Spider-Man: Beyond the Spider-Verse, which will finish Miles Morales' trilogy, slated for June 18, 2027. As of right now, Venom has no set release date.