URL: https://collider.com/oppenheimer-best-ww2-epic-ever-made-global-streaming-success-february-2026-christopher-nolan/
Title: The Best World War II Epic Ever Made Is a Streaming Hit Once Again
Published: 2026-02-10
Extracted: 2026-02-20T18:14:54.523560
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Wars do not cover humanity in the best light. World War II followed a similar trajectory, and since its end, one of the darkest periods in human history has been immortalized in film. Saving Private Ryan, domestically.
For a long time, though, director Steven Spielberg's masterpiece,That crown ultimately passed to director Christopher Nolan's own masterpiece, Oppenheimer, which grossed nearly $1 billion at the box office before making light work of the 2024 Academy Awards. The feat didn't come as much of a surprise, as Nolan has vast experience developing WWII movies. Dunkirk had held the title of the biggest WW2 movie ever, having overtaken Spielberg's Saving Private Ryan after its box office run.
Cillian Murphy-led film is also performing for JOYN in Germany.
performance on digital platforms. Oppenheimer is performing well in the top 10 of the iTunes charts across several countries, including Malta and Belarus, among others. TheWhat Is Christopher Nolan's 'Oppenheimer' About?
Oppenheimer follows the defining moments in the life of J. Robert Oppenheimer and the race during WWII to build nuclear weapons. Appreciation for the film is high, as reflected in its critics' and audiences' scores of 93% and 91%, respectively, on the Rotten Tomatoes aggregate site. Besides its lead man, the film also stars Robert Downey Jr., who turned in an Oscar-winning performance. Emily Blunt, Josh Hartnett, Matt Damon, and Jason Clarke also star. The film is revered by critics as a great production with Collider's own Ross Bonaime writing in his review, "It is the kind of film that makes you appreciative of every aspect of filmmaking, blowing you away with how it all comes together in such a fitting fashion."
Check out Oppenheimer on VOD platforms like iTunes, and stay tuned to Collider for more streaming updates.