URL: https://screenrant.com/spider-noir-show-hammerhead-villain-live-action-debut-possible/
Title: There's No Way This Classic Villain Doesn't Appear In Prime Video's Live-Action Spider-Man Show, Right?
Published: 2026-02-21
Extracted: 2026-02-21T19:56:06.879222
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Out of all the villains who could potentially appear in Spider-Noir, there perhaps isn't anyone deserving of a role in the story more than Hammerhead. A character that Spider-Man has been at odds with in the comic books since 1972, Hammerhead has never made an appearance in a live-action Marvel property, but he wouldn't be the only Spider-Man villain to finally make that jump in 2026.
Prime Video's small-screen Spider-Man story, centered on the adventures of Nicolas Cage's character in Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse is set to explore a side of the Marvel Universe that's heavily influenced by film noir and pulp fiction novels. It'll reimagine some iconic characters, and also bring in at least one viewers have never seen in live-action - Silvermane.
With Silvermane confirmed to appear in Prime Video's Spider-Noir show, it feels like it's almost inevitable that Hammerhead show up too. After all, he's a better fit for the show than arguably any other Marvel villain.
Why Hammerhead Is The Perfect Choice For A Villain Role In Spider-Noir
Being a show that plunges characters from Spider-Man comic books into a 1930s New York City setting, Spider-Noir is the ideal place to debut a character meant to represent the very world it's adapting. Introduced in The Amazing Spider-Man #113, Hammerhead is a prominent New York City gangster with an abnormally shaped head that he can use as a weapon.
His head, though, only accounts for one of his distinguishing qualities. For the Hammerhead character, Marvel Comics leaned heavily on 1930s gangster movies, such as those made by the likes of Humphrey Bogart, James Cagney, and Edward G. Robinson, as well as stories about Dick Tracy. These works informed the way in which Hammerhead dresses and talks.
As for the narrative reason behind this, the comics have explained that Hammerhead acts like a 1920s gangster due to a case of amnesia brought about by an injury. Before rebranding himself as "Hammerhead," his one memory was that of a poster for a gangster film.
With Spider-Noir, there would be no need for such a backstory. The show takes place in 1930s New York City, allowing Hammerhead to fit seamlessly into the series.
The same would be the case for the plot; it's no secret that Marvel Comics mob boss Silvermane will play a key role in Ben Reilly's investigations, thus underscoring how closely Spider-Noir's narrative will be intertwined with organized crime. With Ben Reilly going up against criminals like Silvermane in 1930s New York City, it'd be shocking if Hammerhead wasn't one of them.