URL: https://screenrant.com/spider-noir-show-man-mountain-marko-live-action-debut-possible/
Title: This 57-Year-Old Spider-Man Villain Is In A Better Position Than Ever For His First Live-Action Appearance
Published: 2026-02-20
Extracted: 2026-02-21T14:22:59.772493
----------------------------------------------------------------------

A character that's had a presence in Marvel Comics for nearly six decades now is finally in line for what would be his first-ever live-action appearance. Nothing has been confirmed, but details regarding Spider-Noir, Prime Video's alternate universe Spider-Man TV series, put Man Mountain Marko in a good spot for a role in the story.
Offering a live-action tale focused on Nicolas Cage's film noir-inspired Spider-Man variant in Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse, the new show is expected to take a dive into a darker and seedier side of the wall-crawler's corner of the Marvel Universe. Thanks to the Spider-Noir trailer, it's clear that the show will offer new versions of Black Cat, Sandman, and several others.
Based on what's known about the story, the primary challenge Nicolas Cage's Spider-Man will be facing will revolve around Silvermane, a longtime foe of Peter Parker. With Silvermane set to appear, that lays the groundwork for yet another classic comic villain to make his live-action debut.
Man Mountain Marko Has A Good Chance Of Appearing In Spider-Noir
Man Mountain Marko is a Marvel Comics gangster known for possessing superhuman levels of strength, enough that he can physically challenge Spider-Man. He first appeared in 1969's The Amazing Spider-Man #73, the same issue that introduced Silvermane. Man Mountain Marko's first encounter with Spider-Man came about when he was sent after Curt Conners by Silvermane.
With Man Mountain Marko frequently filling the role of Silvermane's chief henchman, the character was often in play whenever the mob boss was causing trouble in the Marvel Universe, whether it was a Spider-Man story or someone else's problem. In addition to Spider-Man, he's clashed with the likes of Luke Cage, Jessica Jones, Iron Fist, Moon Knight, and even Captain America.
All things considered, Man Mountain Marko would be a fitting choice for Spider-Noir's villain lineup. Given his long history as a subordinate to Silvermane and ability to oppose Spider-Man in a fight, no villain feels like a better option for the mob boss's second-in-command or personal assassin.
After all, Silvermane (before transforming himself into a cyborg) was more of a "man behind the curtain" type of villain, rather than someone who could take on his foes himself. Instead, the fighting was often left to Man Mountain Marko, who was certainly capable of going toe-to-toe with street-level superheroes on behalf of high-level gangsters like Silvermane.
And unlike the situation with Molten Man, Sandman, and Black Cat, Man Mountain Marko won't need to go through any drastic changes to work in Spider-Noir's dark and gritty universe. Man Mountain Marko expressed a willingness to commit some surprisingly heinous acts, making him exactly the kind of character this version of Ben Reilly is likely to go up against in Spider-Noir.