URL: https://screenrant.com/gerard-butler-timeline-sci-fi-movie-flop-success-streaming/
Title: Why Gerard Butler’s $80M Sci-Fi Bomb Is Suddenly Taking Over The World
Published: 2026-02-20
Extracted: 2026-02-20T16:58:46.897849
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Although Gerard Butler’s 2003 sci-fi movie Timeline was hated by critics and ignored by viewers upon its original release, the underrated flop is now lighting up the streaming charts. Author Michael Crichton has one of the most varied screen careers in the history of Hollywood, thanks to the many adaptations of his work.
Crichton’s novel Jurassic Park was turned into a 1993 blockbuster of the same name by Steven Spielberg, spawning a franchise that continues today into 2025’s reboot Jurassic World: Rebirth. The author also penned Westworld, which became a successful 1973 movie and later an acclaimed 2016 TV series.
However, the prolific author was also responsible for his fair share of flops in his time. 1998’s Sphere was a bizarre mélange of sci-fi, fantasy, and horror that proved painfully dull, while his 1994 adaptation, Disclosure, is maybe the most regrettable of the spate of erotic thrillers that filled multiplexes in the early ‘90s.
2003’s Timeline Was A Critical and Commercial Failure
Similarly, 2003’s Crichton adaptation Timeline was a flop upon release, earning a mere $43.9 million on a budget of $80 million. To hear the critics tell it, that box office payday was still about $44 million too high, as reviewers dismissed the sci-fi adventure story as risible, implausible, and incoherent.
Legendary movie critic Roger Ebert’s pithy review stated that the movie, ostensibly a time travel thriller, was more concerned with traveling between the two mismatched genres of corporate thriller and medieval swashbuckler. Few reviewers were any kinder, and the disastrous box office performance of the movie meant that Timeline was largely forgotten in the years that followed.
However, the Gerard Butler and Paul Walker movie recently enjoyed an unexpected revival on streaming services, and it is not hard to see why. For all of Ebert’s misgivings, Timeline is hardly the outright disaster that critics made it out to be.
The movie follows a group of archeology students who are disturbed to discover that their professor has been sent back in time. Now, they too must travel back to save him from a battle in the 1300s France.
Veteran stand-up comedian Billy Connolly is as charming as ever as Professor Edward Johnston, the eccentric academic who has been sent into the past by the shady ITC Corporation. Walker plays his son, Chris, while Frances O’Connor, Ethan Embry, and Rossif Sutherland play the rest of his students.
Butler steals every scene he appears in as the Scottish archaeologist André Marek, who discovers proof that poor Professor Johnston has indeed ended up in the past thanks to ITC’s meddling with teleportation technology. Once the movie transports its characters to the past, Timeline revisits a theme from earlier Crichton stories as the corporate intrigue doesn’t stop there.
Much like Jurassic Park’s InGen and BioSyn continue their corporate espionage long after literal dinosaurs have started to roam free and chomp on humans, the archaeologists realize that the ITC Corporation is just as dangerous as the English and French knights hunting them in the past. It’s an overstuffed plot, but an undeniably fun one.
Gerard Butler’s Career Picked Up After Timeline Flopped
Fortunately for Timeline’s stars, many of them went on to enjoy illustrious careers after the movie flopped. Of course, Walker was well known for the Fast and Furious movies before his untimely death, while supporting star Anna Friel went on to star in the cult classic series Pushing Daisies.
Character actors Neal McDonough and Ethan Embry cropped up in countless movies and shows before Timeline and have remained active since, while Michael Sheen went on to become a major star in the years that followed. However, it was Gerard Butler who proved to be the movie’s breakout cast member.
Despite occasional underperformers like 2020’s underrated Copshop, Butler has been a major Hollywood mainstay in the decades since Timeline’s release. The actor already had roles in Reign of Fire and Lara Croft: Tomb Raider – The Cradle of Life before Timeline was released, but 2007 saw Zack Snyder’s epic 300 massively increase his profile.
Leading roles in P.S. I Love You and Guy Ritchie’s RocknRolla followed, as well as hits like Law Abiding Citizen, the How To Train Your Dragon movies and Olympus Has Fallen. Butler did weather a few more flops after Timeline, such as 2016’s Gods of Egypt, but the actor’s role in the Crichton adaptation didn’t seem to hurt his prospects in the long run.
Timeline Never Deserved Its Disastrous Critical Reception
The news that Timeline has proven popular on streaming shouldn’t come as much of a surprise, since the adaptation was never as bad as its reviews suggested. While admittedly overlong, its bizarre mixture of corporate thrills and straightforward medieval time travel action is a funny, unusual mix, and the movie feels like a silly ‘90s adventure movie that time forgot.
Fans of Jurassic Park want to know what the history of Isla Sorna is, and whether the Las Cinco Muertes Archipelago is real or a fictional creation
It’s not the best movie on any of the cast’s CVs, but Timeline is a fun reminder that even the worst Michael Crichton adaptations have a certain cozy quality that makes for perfect Sunday afternoon viewing. While Gerard Butler thankfully went on to bigger and better things, Timeline is still well worth a watch as a fun diversion.